# For campaign creators

This is a very early version of this document, and at this point is mainly intended to get the process started.

In general, the movement AI finds the absolute shortest path to where it ultimately wants to move. That path goes into
the "basket" of possible movement choices. Then, it also puts in all choices that would lead to no more than one third
longer path (1.33 times the shortest path). If these two paths converge at some node to the exact same path, then only
the divergent part is considered in the comparison. Otherwise the AI would be making useless little detours at the
beginning, because their relative effect to the total length would be so small. This partial path rule guarantees that
the eventually chosen path makes at least some sense. Also, the AI will never move backwards unless that is the only
possible path to the eventual target node.

A good network of nodes is to be designed with these principles. Leave a lot of options as to how a unit might get to
the campaign goal, such that they are generally in the same ballpark in terms of length. Also, since we currently move
only by one segment between nodes per turn, you should generally keep the segments roughly the same length. Unless you
want to simulate something advanced, like movement being very slow in a jungle, in which case you might place the nodes
closer together there. The Mozdok campaign is a good example of a very simple network that produces a large number of
potential paths, and therefore is unpredictable to a human player who is trying to guess where the most threatening
group of tanks is going to go next.

The node network is created with a UNARMED -type vehicle, for example Ural fire engines. You must include \_\_rom\_\_
somewhere in its group name. You create the network by creating a route for the units, such that each waypoint of the
route represents one node of the network. If two waypoints are within 200 meters of each other, they get merged into a
single node, and this is how what would otherwise be just a point-to-point line, becomes a graph. It is recommended to
place the waypoints as close as you can on top of each other, since 200m may be a bit difficult to visually assess from
the map. No unit with \_\_rom\_\_ (For "ROuteMarker") in its groupname will remain on the field when the mission starts.
As soon as the host player's* scripting engine is able to start, the routes are communicated to the server application
which creates the graph, and then the units are deleted from the field. You can use as many units as you need. Merged
waypoints can belong to the same unit, or different units. Only thing that matters is that you see two circles on top of
each other.

\* In this document, "host player" also refers to the only player if this is a single player match, unless multiplayer
is explicitly specified.

You must also decide the objectives for both sides. You do this by creating a unit for the coalition that wants to get
to that node, and include \_\_ob\_\_ (For "OBjective") in the unit's groupname. In other words, you put a blue unit into
the node which represents the red players headquarters (from which the purchased infantry and Anti-aircraft units come)
and vice versa. This unit is also deleted at the mission start just like the route. Example missions use APC as the unit
type as policy, so that it would be quicker to eyeball what is what on a campaign map in Mission Editor without having
to click the groupnames visible. If you see a single blue APC somewhere deep in red unit region, you can immediately
guess it's the objective. Similarly for red Ural fire engines for route markers. These are merely conventions, however.
To repeat once more: Blue units are trying to get to the blue unit with \_\_ob\_\_ in its name, and red units are trying
to get to red. When they do, this ends the campaign.

Parts of groupname that start and end with two underscores, and affect the unit's or group's functionality, are called
tags. The ones mentioned above are the only tags that are absolutely necessary for a campaign to even be playable. But
there are some more. The tag \_\_im\_\_ stands for "IMmortal" and though the units can be destroyed, they respawn on
every turn. The \_\_ig\_\_ tag ("IGnore") is even stronger. Not only is the unit immortal in the sense of the previous
tag, it is entirely ignored by the server logic, which will make no attempt to move it anywhere or give it orders. Such
units must then receive their orders in the standard way from the mission file. They will do the exact same thing on
every turn.

Static objects of the type Cargos-Ammo (first items on the dropdown menu for Static Objects in Mission Editor) can be
used to mark interesting spots on the map image generated by the server software. You simply include \_\_mm\_\_
("MapMarker") in its name. These objects will also disappear when the mission starts. It is not recommended to use any
other static object type for these markers, because some of them cannot be deleted by the scripting engine, at least in
the current version of DCS World at the time of writing. For example smoke is not recognized as a proper static object
for deletion, and would remain on the playing field.

It is possible to put the actual DCS map as a background image to the dynamically generated map. However, since we have
to connect the coordinates to each other, this requires a bit of effort. First, make two ammo crates just like with
mapmarkers, but name them \_\_cm\_\_ ("CornerMarker"). Their group names don't matter, other than having the tag in
exactly two ammo crates. Place them exactly to the two diagonally opposite corners of where you intend to grab the map
with a screenshot. Save the mission file after you have placed the objects, as their coordinates are necessary for
connecting the two coordinate systems. They will not appear in the actual mission, just like mapmarkers don't. After
saving, click CUSTOMIZE - MAP OPTIONS in the top menu, and temporarily uncheck USER OBJECTS. This will show you a clean
map. Now take the screenshot with Print Screen on your keyboard, being sure to not have panned or zoomed the map between
these two actions. This will place a capture of your entire screen to the clipboard. Now, paste that image to an image
editing software such as Photoshop or Gimp (free). Crop the image to just the map portion of the screen, leaving out the
user interface. Instructions for cropping images should be easy to find with Google. Save the cropped image as Png or
Jpg. Then, in the server software, click File - Set background image, navigate to the file you saved and click Open.
This will save the file to your working directory as the current background. You may want to deliver this file along
with any .miz files you distribute, to make the user's job easier. If you don't, the user can still do it by taking the
appropriate screenshot. Remember to save the .png or .jpg somewhere, as the data in your working directory will get
overwritten when you change the background after starting some other campaign.

Any orders you might give to any other planes than those with \_\_ig\_\_ in their group name, are simply ignored. The
server will locate the group of tanks that it considers to be the greatest current threat to that side, and commands the
plane to patrol in that area. Please note that the DCS World A.I. can make some undesirable decisions; for example
placing a radio tower that belongs to the opposing side near the airfield would immediately draw the plane to that radio
tower instead, due to the patrol order. (Which notices a target immediately and is no longer interested in the original
destination). If you notice surprising behavior from airplanes, check that you haven't accidentally placed opposing side
assets near the airfield.

If you include \_\_spaa\_\_ (Self-Propelled Anti-Aircraft )in a vehicle group's groupname, it is considered an
Anti-Aircraft unit, and it will move in a more conservative fashion, trying to stay behind the absolute front line where
tanks are battling each other. If you fail to include this tag, A.A. units will move like tanks, and most likely will be
massacred by enemy tanks immediately.

The tag \_\_in\_\_ ("INfantry") is reserved for dynamically created, "symbolic" infantry units where one unit represents
a larger group of infantry. Whether this unit actually dies or not during the mission, is entirely ignored. Its original
location, and simulated number of troops is only considered when simulating what happens between turns. (Tanks kill
infantry, and infantry slows down tanks.) So, if you want to add some actual infantry to the field that should
participate in battle, don't include this tag. You could make it, for example, \_\_ig\_\_. Similarly, the tag \_\_su\_\_
("SUpport") is for the dynamically generated support unit which heals the simulated infantry. Do not use that tag in a
mission file either.

Here is a list of all supported tags. Usable=no means that you must not include this tag in the mission editor, but it
is only created dynamically by the server.

| *TAG*        | *MEANING*    | *USABLE* |
|--------------|--------------|----------|
| \_\_im\_\_   | immortal     | yes      |
| \_\_ig\_\_   | ignore       | yes      |
| \_\_mm\_\_   | mapmarker    | yes      |
| \_\_cm\_\_   | cornermarker | yes      |
| \_\_rom\_\_  | routemarker  | yes      |
| \_\_ob\_\_   | objective    | yes      |
| \_\_spaa\_\_ | s.p.antiair  | yes      |
| \_\_in\_\_   | infantry     | no       |
| \_\_su\_\_   | support      | no       |